# Carrot Comic Downloader

Download webcomics in an easy and customizable way. You can download the exe or run it locally with Python 3.

Originally project was started because I needed a convenient way to download all Pikmin 4 promotional comics and save them as png instead of avif. Project was then expanded with support for Dark Legacy Comics and also for using custom scripts. Originally project had CLI, but it has been upgraded to GUI made with Tkinter.

## User installation

Download the latest exe.zip from Releases and extract it in location of your choice. Double click "Carrot Comic Downloader" to start the program.

Follow the instructions. Images are saved into "output" folder.

## Tips for user

If you want to download only one specific comic page, input the number as both first and last comic number.

If new comics have been released for supported comics, update the values in "comics.txt" file in "resources" folder.

To use a custom script, edit the "script_custom.py" file in "resources" folder. Your file must have `write_links()` function where custom script code starts.

## Installing and running project

Install Python 3 and pip: https://www.python.org/

Install "requests" module with pip:

```
pip install requests
```

Install "Pillow" module with pip:

```
pip install Pillow
```

Navigate to the project folder and run main.py:

```
python main.py
```

## Build executable

Install PyInstaller with pip:

```
pip install pyinstaller
```

Install ToolTip with pip:

```
pip install tkinter-tooltip
```

Run in project folder:

```
pyinstaller --icon=resources/carrot-icon.ico main.py --onefile
```

## Errors

Error #1: Invalid input: only use "1" or "2", do not use "." or "#". Simply enter a number and press Enter.

Error #2: Imagelist.txt not found: check if you have deleted or moved the file, check spelling in the file title.

Error #3: Writing to text file has been prevented: check if something is blocking the program from creating a text file or writing into it, check if the text file exists.

Error #4: Url does not direct to image or image can't be accessed. This can be caused by bad connection, connection blocking or image only being available for verified users. Check the url by copy-pasting it to a fresh browser.

Error #5: Custom script file import failed. Check the file name you input. Name must be written without ".py" and without quotation marks. Check that your custom script is in project root folder.

Error #6: Parsing comics.txt file failed. First make sure that you have the comics.txt in the correct directory (same directory as the program), then check that it is written correctly with comic name first, then space and last the number. Comic name must be the same as in example comicx.txt in this repository.

If downloading fails with multiple Python error messages, you have a bad connection. Try connecting to a more stable network.

## Credits and learning links

Image resizing tutorial by Atlas: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VnwDPa9biwc

Icon and decoration image were generated by DALL-E 3 with prompt "Icon on white background, simple cartoony golden retriever holding a carrot in it's mouth" and edited by hand afterwards.
